README.md, before:

# Unified Even Hub Simulator v0.0.4

Multi-application development environment for building and testing Even G2 apps with the Even Hub Simulator.

![demo](./media/demo.png)

For general G2 development documentation, see the [G2 development notes](https://github.com/nickustinov/even-g2-notes/blob/main/G2.md).

## Apps

|              App               |                      Description                               |     Visual        |
|:------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------| :---------------: |
|    [chess](https://github.com/dmyster145/EvenChess) | Chess HUD app by @dmyster145 | ![chess](./media/chess.png) |
|    [clock](./apps/clock/)      | Clock app – app refresh test showcase                           | ![clock](./media/clock.png) |
|    [demo](./apps/demo/)        | Demo app – simple control showcase                              | ![demo](./media/demo.png) |
|    [epub](https://github.com/chortya/epub-reader-g2) | Epub reader by @chortya | ![epub](./media/epub.png) ![epub2](./media/epub2.png) |
|    [reddit](https://github.com/fuutott/rdt-even-g2-rddit-client) | Reddit feed and comments browser by @fuutott | ![reddit](./media/reddit.png) |
|    [stars](https://github.com/thibautrey/even-stars) | Real-time sky chart by @thibautrey | ![stars](./media/stars.png) |
|    [timer](./apps/timer/)      | Countdown timer (1, 5 ... min, click to start, double-click to stop) | ![timer](./media/timer.png) |
|    [transit](https://github.com/langerhans/even-transit) | Public transport planner by @langerhans | ![stars](./media/transport.png) |
|    [weather](https://github.com/nickustinov/weather-even-g2) | Weather forecast by @nickustinov | ![weather](./media/weather.png) |
|    [restapi](./apps/restapi/)  | Simple REST API client (micrOS integration)                     | ![restapi](./media/restapi.png) |
|    [quicktest](./apps/quicktest/) | Fast test app for UI generated by `misc/editor` | ![quicktest](./media/quicktest.png) ![editor](./media/editor.png) |

---

## Requirements

* Node.js
* npm
* curl (used by `start-even.sh`)
* Even Hub Simulator

---

## Quick start

```bash
npm install
./start-even.sh
```

The launcher lists all available apps (built-in + external) and prompts you to pick one.

### Select an app directly

```bash
APP_NAME=demo ./start-even.sh
```

Or as a positional argument:

```bash
./start-even.sh demo
```

### Run a local app by path

If you have an app checked out locally, point to it directly – no need to edit `apps.json`:

```bash
APP_PATH=../my-app ./start-even.sh
```

This resolves the directory, installs its dependencies if needed, and launches it. The app name is derived from the directory basename.

---

## How apps are loaded

There are two kinds of apps:

### Built-in apps (`apps/`)

Small apps that live directly in the `apps/` directory (demo, clock, timer, quicktest, restapi). They share the even-dev `index.html` and `src/Main.ts` loader, and export an `AppModule` interface from `apps/<name>/index.ts`.

### External apps

Standalone web apps with their own `index.html`, `package.json`, and `vite.config.ts`. They run independently – even-dev just serves their `index.html` through Vite with the correct filesystem access.

External apps are registered in `apps.json`:

```json
{
  "chess": "https://github.com/dmyster145/EvenChess",
  "weather": "https://github.com/nickustinov/weather-even-g2.git",
  "my-local-app": "../my-local-app"
}
```

Values can be:
- **Git URLs** – cloned into `.apps-cache/` on first run
- **Local paths** – resolved relative to the even-dev root

For one-off testing without editing `apps.json`, use `APP_PATH` instead (see above).

---

## Building a G2 app

A G2 app is a regular web app. There is no special framework or wrapper required – just HTML, TypeScript, and the Even Hub SDK for communicating with the glasses.

See [chess](https://github.com/dmyster145/EvenChess) and [reddit](https://github.com/fuutott/rdt-even-g2-rddit-client) for well-structured examples.

### Minimal file structure

```
my-app/
  index.html          <- entry point
  package.json        <- dependencies and scripts
  vite.config.ts      <- dev server config
  src/
    main.ts           <- app bootstrap
  app.json            <- app metadata (for packaging)
```

### `index.html`

A standard HTML page that loads your app:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1" />
  <title>My App</title>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="app"></div>
  <script type="module" src="/src/main.ts"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

### `package.json`

At minimum, you need the Even Hub SDK and Vite:

```json
{
  "name": "my-even-app",
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "vite --host 0.0.0.0 --port 5173",
    "build": "vite build"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@evenrealities/even_hub_sdk": "^0.0.7"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "typescript": "^5.9.3",
    "vite": "^7.3.1"
  }
}
```

### `app.json`

Metadata file used by `evenhub-cli` for packaging and deployment:

```json
{
  "package_id": "com.example.myapp",
  "name": "my-app",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "description": "What my app does",
  "author": "Your Name",
  "entrypoint": "index.html"
}
```

See the [reddit app's app.json](https://github.com/fuutott/rdt-even-g2-rddit-client) for a full example with permissions.

### Connecting to the Even bridge

```ts
import { waitForEvenAppBridge } from '@evenrealities/even_hub_sdk'

const bridge = await waitForEvenAppBridge()

bridge.onEvenHubEvent((event) => {
  // Handle tap, double-tap, swipe, etc.
})

// Send UI to the glasses
bridge.sendStartUpPage(container)
```

### Tips

- **Use inline styles or plain CSS** – avoid CSS frameworks like Tailwind that require build plugins, since your app may be served through even-dev's Vite config which won't have those plugins.
- **Keep it standalone** – your app should work with just `npm run dev`. Don't depend on even-dev's infrastructure.
- **If your app needs a backend server**, put it in a `server/` directory with its own `package.json`. Even-dev will auto-detect and start it (see `vite-plugins/app-server.ts`).
- **Use `@jappyjan/even-realities-ui`** for settings pages if you want consistent UI components across apps.
- **Use `@evenrealities/evenhub-cli`** for packaging and deploying to the Even Hub. See [reddit](https://github.com/fuutott/rdt-even-g2-rddit-client) for `pack` and `qr` script examples.

---

## Custom Vite plugins (`vite-plugins/`)

Even-dev has a `vite-plugins/` directory for app-specific Vite configuration that runs when serving external apps. Current plugins:

| Plugin | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `app-server.ts` | Auto-starts an app's `server/` process (e.g., Tesla's Tessie API proxy) |
| `browser-launcher.ts` | Opens the browser when the dev server is ready |
| `chess-stockfish.ts` | Serves Stockfish WASM assets for the chess app |
| `reddit-proxy.ts` | Proxies Reddit API requests to avoid CORS issues |
| `restapi-proxy.ts` | Proxies REST API requests for the restapi app |

If your app needs custom server-side behaviour (API proxying, asset serving, etc.), add a plugin here. Plugins receive a `PluginContext` with `externalApps` – a map of app names to their resolved directory paths. Return `null` if the plugin doesn't apply to the current app.

---

## Quicktest + editor workflow

Use this flow when you build UI in `misc/editor` and want to test it quickly in the simulator.

1. Start the editor: `./misc/editor.sh`
2. Generate the TypeScript output in the editor.
3. Replace `apps/quicktest/generated-ui.ts` with the generated code.
4. Run quicktest: `APP_NAME=quicktest ./start-even.sh`
5. Click **Render Quicktest UI** in the browser.

---

## Project structure

```
apps.json           -> External app registry (git URLs or local paths)
start-even.sh       -> CLI launcher: app selection, deps, Vite, simulator
index.html          -> Entry point for built-in apps
src/Main.ts         -> Built-in app loader (AppModule discovery)
apps/               -> Built-in apps (demo, clock, timer, quicktest, restapi)
apps/_shared/       -> Shared types (AppModule contract)
vite-plugins/       -> Custom Vite plugins for external apps
.apps-cache/        -> Auto-cloned external app repositories (gitignored)
vite.config.ts      -> Vite config (aliases, fs.allow, external app HTML serving)
```

---

## Architecture

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  A["start-even.sh"] --> B["Vite dev server (APP_NAME)"]

  B --> C["Built-in app?"]
  C -- Yes --> D["index.html + src/Main.ts"]
  D --> E["apps/<app>/index.ts (AppModule)"]

  C -- No --> F["External app's own index.html"]
  F --> G["External app's src/main.ts"]

  E --> H["Even Hub SDK / bridge"]
  G --> H

  H <--> I["Even Hub Simulator"]

  J["vite-plugins/"] --> B
```

---

## Even developer resources

* SDK: [even_hub_sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@evenrealities/even_hub_sdk)
* CLI: [evenhub-cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@evenrealities/evenhub-cli)
* Simulator: [evenhub-simulator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@evenrealities/evenhub-simulator)
* Community SDK: [even-better-sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jappyjan/even-better-sdk) by @JappyJan
* UI components: [even-realities-ui](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jappyjan/even-realities-ui) by @JappyJan
* UIUX guidelines: [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/X82y5uJvqMH95jgOfmV34j/Even-Realities---Software-Design-Guidelines--Public-?node-id=2922-80782&t=ZIxZJDitnBnZJOwb-1)
* G2 development notes: [G2.md](https://github.com/nickustinov/even-g2-notes/blob/main/G2.md)

---

## Disclaimer

This is a development environment intended for experimentation and building Even G2 apps. APIs and structure may change as the Even ecosystem evolves.

Commit message:

Huge thanks to nickustinov (excellent refactor of Unified Simulator solution), add pong and snake to apps.json + keep misc/editor as submodule (not a glass app, but for glass UI generation - test the generated output with apps/quicktest)

README.md, after:

# Unified Even Hub Simulator v0.0.4

Multi-application development environment for building and testing Even G2 apps with the Even Hub Simulator.

![demo](./media/demo.png)

For general G2 development documentation, see the [G2 development notes](https://github.com/nickustinov/even-g2-notes/blob/main/G2.md).

## Apps

|              App               |                      Description                               |     Visual        |
|:------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------| :---------------: |
|    [chess](https://github.com/dmyster145/EvenChess) | Chess HUD app by @dmyster145 | ![chess](./media/chess.png) |
|    [clock](./apps/clock/)      | Clock app – app refresh test showcase                           | ![clock](./media/clock.png) |
|    [demo](./apps/demo/)        | Demo app – simple control showcase                              | ![demo](./media/demo.png) |
|    [epub](https://github.com/chortya/epub-reader-g2) | Epub reader by @chortya | ![epub](./media/epub.png) ![epub2](./media/epub2.png) |
|    [reddit](https://github.com/fuutott/rdt-even-g2-rddit-client) | Reddit feed and comments browser by @fuutott | ![reddit](./media/reddit.png) |
|    [stars](https://github.com/thibautrey/even-stars) | Real-time sky chart by @thibautrey | ![stars](./media/stars.png) |
|    [timer](./apps/timer/)      | Countdown timer (1, 5 ... min, click to start, double-click to stop) | ![timer](./media/timer.png) |
|    [transit](https://github.com/langerhans/even-transit) | Public transport planner by @langerhans | ![stars](./media/transport.png) |
|    [weather](https://github.com/nickustinov/weather-even-g2) | Weather forecast by @nickustinov | ![weather](./media/weather.png) |
|    [restapi](./apps/restapi/)  | Simple REST API client (micrOS integration)                     | ![restapi](./media/restapi.png) |
|    [quicktest](./apps/quicktest/) | Fast test app for UI generated by `misc/editor` | ![quicktest](./media/quicktest.png) ![editor](./media/editor.png) |

---

## Requirements

* Node.js
* npm
* curl (used by `start-even.sh`)
* Even Hub Simulator

---

## Quick start

```bash
npm install
./start-even.sh
```

The launcher lists all available apps (built-in + external) and prompts you to pick one.

`misc/editor` is an auxiliary helper project tracked as a git submodule under `misc/`. It is not a runtime app in the `apps/*` selection list. Update misc submodule: `git submodule update --init --recursive`

### Select an app directly

```bash
APP_NAME=demo ./start-even.sh
```

Or as a positional argument:

```bash
./start-even.sh demo
```

### Run a local app by path

If you have an app checked out locally, point to it directly – no need to edit `apps.json`:

```bash
APP_PATH=../my-app ./start-even.sh
```

This resolves the directory, installs its dependencies if needed, and launches it. The app name is derived from the directory basename.

---

## How apps are loaded

There are two kinds of apps:

### Built-in apps (`apps/`)

Small apps that live directly in the `apps/` directory (demo, clock, timer, quicktest, restapi). They share the even-dev `index.html` and `src/Main.ts` loader, and export an `AppModule` interface from `apps/<name>/index.ts`.

### External apps

Standalone web apps with their own `index.html`, `package.json`, and `vite.config.ts`. They run independently – even-dev just serves their `index.html` through Vite with the correct filesystem access.

External apps are registered in `apps.json`:

```json
{
  "chess": "https://github.com/dmyster145/EvenChess",
  "weather": "https://github.com/nickustinov/weather-even-g2.git",
  "my-local-app": "../my-local-app"
}
```

Values can be:
- **Git URLs** – cloned into `.apps-cache/` on first run
- **Local paths** – resolved relative to the even-dev root

For one-off testing without editing `apps.json`, use `APP_PATH` instead (see above).

---

## Building a G2 app

A G2 app is a regular web app. There is no special framework or wrapper required – just HTML, TypeScript, and the Even Hub SDK for communicating with the glasses.

See [chess](https://github.com/dmyster145/EvenChess) and [reddit](https://github.com/fuutott/rdt-even-g2-rddit-client) for well-structured examples.

### Minimal file structure

```
my-app/
  index.html          <- entry point
  package.json        <- dependencies and scripts
  vite.config.ts      <- dev server config
  src/
    main.ts           <- app bootstrap
  app.json            <- app metadata (for packaging)
```

### `index.html`

A standard HTML page that loads your app:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1" />
  <title>My App</title>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="app"></div>
  <script type="module" src="/src/main.ts"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

### `package.json`

At minimum, you need the Even Hub SDK and Vite:

```json
{
  "name": "my-even-app",
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "vite --host 0.0.0.0 --port 5173",
    "build": "vite build"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@evenrealities/even_hub_sdk": "^0.0.7"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "typescript": "^5.9.3",
    "vite": "^7.3.1"
  }
}
```

### `app.json`

Metadata file used by `evenhub-cli` for packaging and deployment:

```json
{
  "package_id": "com.example.myapp",
  "name": "my-app",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "description": "What my app does",
  "author": "Your Name",
  "entrypoint": "index.html"
}
```

See the [reddit app's app.json](https://github.com/fuutott/rdt-even-g2-rddit-client) for a full example with permissions.

### Connecting to the Even bridge

```ts
import { waitForEvenAppBridge } from '@evenrealities/even_hub_sdk'

const bridge = await waitForEvenAppBridge()

bridge.onEvenHubEvent((event) => {
  // Handle tap, double-tap, swipe, etc.
})

// Send UI to the glasses
bridge.sendStartUpPage(container)
```

### Tips

- **Use inline styles or plain CSS** – avoid CSS frameworks like Tailwind that require build plugins, since your app may be served through even-dev's Vite config which won't have those plugins.
- **Keep it standalone** – your app should work with just `npm run dev`. Don't depend on even-dev's infrastructure.
- **If your app needs a backend server**, put it in a `server/` directory with its own `package.json`. Even-dev will auto-detect and start it (see `vite-plugins/app-server.ts`).
- **Use `@jappyjan/even-realities-ui`** for settings pages if you want consistent UI components across apps.
- **Use `@evenrealities/evenhub-cli`** for packaging and deploying to the Even Hub. See [reddit](https://github.com/fuutott/rdt-even-g2-rddit-client) for `pack` and `qr` script examples.

---

## Custom Vite plugins (`vite-plugins/`)

Even-dev has a `vite-plugins/` directory for app-specific Vite configuration that runs when serving external apps. Current plugins:

| Plugin | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `app-server.ts` | Auto-starts an app's `server/` process (e.g., Tesla's Tessie API proxy) |
| `browser-launcher.ts` | Opens the browser when the dev server is ready |
| `chess-stockfish.ts` | Serves Stockfish WASM assets for the chess app |
| `reddit-proxy.ts` | Proxies Reddit API requests to avoid CORS issues |
| `restapi-proxy.ts` | Proxies REST API requests for the restapi app |

If your app needs custom server-side behaviour (API proxying, asset serving, etc.), add a plugin here. Plugins receive a `PluginContext` with `externalApps` – a map of app names to their resolved directory paths. Return `null` if the plugin doesn't apply to the current app.

---

## Quicktest + editor workflow

Use this flow when you build UI in `misc/editor` and want to test it quickly in the simulator with `apps/quicktest`.

1. Ensure submodules are initialized once: `git submodule update --init --recursive`
2. Start the editor helper app: `./misc/editor.sh`
3. In the editor UI, generate TypeScript source.
4. Either paste that source into the quicktest textarea, or replace `apps/quicktest/generated-ui.ts`.
5. Start quicktest: `APP_NAME=quicktest ./start-even.sh`
6. In quicktest, click **Render Quicktest UI**.

Quicktest expectations for generated source:
- Source should define `const container = new CreateStartUpPageContainer(...)`.
- Source can include `import ... from '@evenrealities/even_hub_sdk'` and `export default container`; quicktest strips those automatically.
- First render creates startup UI; additional renders rebuild the page container.

---

## Project structure

```
apps.json           -> External app registry (git URLs or local paths)
start-even.sh       -> CLI launcher: app selection, deps, Vite, simulator
index.html          -> Entry point for built-in apps
src/Main.ts         -> Built-in app loader (AppModule discovery)
apps/               -> Built-in apps (demo, clock, timer, quicktest, restapi)
apps/_shared/       -> Shared types (AppModule contract)
vite-plugins/       -> Custom Vite plugins for external apps
.apps-cache/        -> Auto-cloned external app repositories (gitignored)
vite.config.ts      -> Vite config (aliases, fs.allow, external app HTML serving)
```

---

## Architecture

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  A["start-even.sh"] --> B["Vite dev server (APP_NAME)"]

  B --> C["Built-in app?"]
  C -- Yes --> D["index.html + src/Main.ts"]
  D --> E["apps/<app>/index.ts (AppModule)"]

  C -- No --> F["External app's own index.html"]
  F --> G["External app's src/main.ts"]

  E --> H["Even Hub SDK / bridge"]
  G --> H

  H <--> I["Even Hub Simulator"]

  J["vite-plugins/"] --> B
```

---

## Even developer resources

* SDK: [even_hub_sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@evenrealities/even_hub_sdk)
* CLI: [evenhub-cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@evenrealities/evenhub-cli)
* Simulator: [evenhub-simulator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@evenrealities/evenhub-simulator)
* Community SDK: [even-better-sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jappyjan/even-better-sdk) by @JappyJan
* UI components: [even-realities-ui](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jappyjan/even-realities-ui) by @JappyJan
* UIUX guidelines: [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/X82y5uJvqMH95jgOfmV34j/Even-Realities---Software-Design-Guidelines--Public-?node-id=2922-80782&t=ZIxZJDitnBnZJOwb-1)
* G2 development notes: [G2.md](https://github.com/nickustinov/even-g2-notes/blob/main/G2.md)

---

## Disclaimer

This is a development environment intended for experimentation and building Even G2 apps. APIs and structure may change as the Even ecosystem evolves.
